=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

dictcmd - an simple german <-> english dictionary for your commandline

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This program is for german - english and english - german translation direct
form your comandline. There are two eventual sources to get your translation.
The first one is an simple file in your directory, the second one is to make
an online request to a known dictonary service. You can choose which kind of
source you ask. Only online, only offline or both (default). If you ask both
and your perl version has ithreads enabled you get better performance by using 
multithreading.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    dictcmd <OPTION> <SEARCHITEM>

    -de2en
    -de the given word is a german one and you want to search the english equivalent.
    -en2de
    -en the given word is a english one and you want to search the german equivalent.
    -online use only online search 
    -offline use only offline search in the en-de.ISO-8859-1.vok file

=head1 INSTALLATION

    $ perl Makefile.PL
    $ make
    $ make test
    $ make install

=head1 OPTIONAL REQUIREMENTS

=head2 Online Modus

If you want to use the online search too, you need to install a CPAN Module.:
B<WWW::Dict::Leo::Org> L<http://search.cpan.org/~tlinden/WWW-Dict-Leo-Org-1.35/Org.pm>
If you use B<cpanm> type:
    $ cpanm WWW::Dict::Leo::Org

If you not use B<cpanm> ... you B<should!>

=head2 Thread Support

If you want to use online and offline ressources together it is possible to use this
with multithread support. To use interpreterthreads in perl you must compile
them into your perl version. To check if they already compiled in type:
    
    $ perl -V | grep ithreads
    $ #or 
    $ perl -le 'use Config;$Config{'useithreads'}?print"threads":print"no threads"'

To Compile them in, you must define the thread macro at configure time with:

    $ sh Configure -Dusethreads

Note: B<This little programm runs also fine without threads or online modules!>

=head1 TODO

=over 5

=item Output options controllable with confiugration file

=item Support for other online dictionary services

=item Refactore the package structure 

=item writing additional tests to provide better stability

=item adding the difference from online and offline output to the file

=back

=cut
